Internship blog post for winter 25 (#380)
leaningtech/labs: content/blog/inside-our-internship-program-april-26.mdx

---
title: "Inside our internship program, Winter 2025 Edition"
slug: internships-winter25
description: |
  Our interns reflect on their 6 month internships at Leaning Technologies
authors:
  - jules
  - alex-von-benckendorff
  - merlin
  - andres
pubDate: "April 13 2026"
heroImage: "./internships_hero26.webp"
tags:
  - Cheerp
  - BrowserPod
---

> Another spring and another cohort of interns wrapping up their internships with us. This winter two of our interns worked on [Cheerp](https://cheerp.io/), our C++ to Wasm and JavaScript compiler. Andres put work toward optimizing Cheerp's compile time and Alex designed and built Cheerp a new test suite. Merlin worked on the Developer Relations and Experience side of things. He's helped us with making our documentation and communications with the developer community more understandable, and worked on some issues on our developer website. Read below what they have to say about their experiences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another spring and another cohort of interns wrapping up their internships with us. This winter two of our interns worked on [Cheerp](https://cheerp.io/), our C++ to Wasm and JavaScript compiler. Andres put work toward optimizing Cheerp's compile time and Alex designed and built Cheerp a new test suite. Merlin worked on the Developer Relations and Experience side of things. He's helped us with making our documentation and communications with the developer community more clear, and worked on some issues on our developer website. Read below what they have to say about their experiences.
```

> ## Alex von Benckendorff – Intern Software Engineer – Compilers

Reviewer: I would re-state the project scope in this section title

Leaning Technologies offers interns a high degree of autonomy, which allowed me to take ownership of my project and develop practical problem-solving skills in a large and complex codebase. Through this experience, I deepened my understanding of compiler tooling, testing infrastructure, and the challenges of maintaining legacy behavior while modernizing systems. I also strengthened my ability to approach unfamiliar problems, balance technical ambition with practical constraints, and iteratively deliver robust solutions. Overall, this internship has significantly increased my confidence in working independently on complex engineering problems in a professional environment.

> ## Merlin de Cloe - Intern Software Engineer - Developer Experience and Relations

Reviewer: I would reoder the sections to keep the compiler projects closer together

> Greetings! I’m Merlin, 26 years old, a big fan of frogs and dancing and many other things. To conclude my studies at Codam Coding College, I joined Leaning Technologies as a Developer Experience and Relations (DevRel) Engineer intern.

Reviewer: Link to codam?

As someone in the DevRel position instead of working on the core compiler products, my responsibilities contained everything around it. This meant my writing, design and communication skills grew as much as my technical skills.

Community management wise, one of my tasks was to maintain the community discord. Writing weekly devlogs, thinking of what could be improved and engaging with users. It was a pleasant surprise that things I learned just to talk with friends in my own time suddenly became relevant for my work.

> Despite already being a strong communicator, it was great to get the opportunity to grow even more, especially when acting as a representative of the entire company. In this role, you represent the company not only with your person, but with your knowledge of our products. Bringing technical work to the public from your own perspective is a big responsibility. It is a difficult task to convey accurate and understandable information about complex things, particularly ones that you are only learning about during your internship. This felt like the perfect intersection between communication and technical, as I needed the technical understanding of how the products worked combined with the ability to explain them in a way that is as easy to understand as possible for a new user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite already being a strong communicator, it was great to get the opportunity to grow even more, especially when acting as a representative of the entire company. In this role, you represent the company not only with your person, but with your knowledge of our products. Bringing technical work to the public from your own perspective is a big responsibility. It is a difficult task to convey accurate and understandable information about complex things, particularly ones that you are only learning about during your internship. This felt like the perfect intersection between communication and engineering, as I needed the technical understanding of how the products worked combined with the ability to explain them in a way that is as easy to understand as possible for a new user.
```

> Regarding the more technical work I did. The main work I was involved with were our documentation webpages, Labs. All the work for the pages is contained in a monorepo that builds our sites using the Astro framework. Maintaining this repo and fixing bugs meant I had to quickly familiarize myself with new frameworks while learning to navigate a large, professional codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regarding the more technical work I did. My main focus was our documentation webpages, Labs. All the work for the pages is contained in a monorepo that builds our sites using the Astro framework. Maintaining this repo and fixing bugs meant I had to quickly familiarize myself with new frameworks while learning to navigate a large, professional codebases.
```

Funnily enough, I, in a sense, learned the most simply by being part of the team! Because of the small team size and how much trust and freedom I got, I was pushed to be a proactive team member. It felt a bit daunting at first and came with its own challenges: managing my own time, not taking direct feedback personally, and learning to make my own judgement calls rather than just following orders. As the internship went on, I started keeping track of more things, taking initiative, and giving more of my own feedback.

> So thank you for the past 6 months! For trusting us while still giving us guidance when asked for or needed. And last but not least for the fun camaraderie and fun and random conversations during lunch!

Reviewer: Please review this section for excessive re-use of the same words in close proximity

Author: @codingfrog27 feel free to commit a change directly on this branch

Reviewer 2: done 👌
